* FAQ * 
= Introduction =

*Questions and answers.*

= Details =

*Q: Where is the firmware /binary ?  *

  Answer: 

  Use download section.  
  Actual one is:  http://code.google.com/p/snake-os/downloads/detail?name=snakeos-V1.1.0-20100418-from-snake.zip&can=2&q=

  *Be aware! from snake and from original stock firm is different!*

*Q: Can I upgrade my NS-K330 or WLX-652 with SnakeOS ?*

  Answer: Yes. Definitly. Recommended. More stable, and more functions.

*Q: Where is user documentation?*

  Answer1:  Douglas not even made this firmware but documented it! 

  Authors are: Douglas Gazineu,  Jarko, José Maciel,  Miguel Moreto

  You can read it in download section.

*Q: Where to ask questions?*

  Answer: Read the forum and PAGES on the right side of 

  http://groups.google.com/group/dealextreme-nas-/topics?hl=en

*Q: Device lost all connectivity, no answer for ping, ssh, http, ftp. What can I do?*

  Answer1:  Reset it.

  NS-K330 has a reset button. Push it while powering on, with the reset button
  held in for 45 seconds (counted to 60 just in case).
  After it showed up under the default IP (or at least the one assigned by the
  DHCP server), by the MAC address.  

*Q: Reset was not enough - device not respond.*

  Answer2: If you are not lucky with reset, second chance you are able to serial connect to device and telnet via the RS232-TTL converter direct connect.
  You also have to connect nas with the rj45 cable for TFTP access.  
  Picture and description here:
  http://groups.google.com/group/dealextreme-nas-/web/serial-connection-how-to

*Q: Serial connect was not allowed - device not respond/boot.*

  Answer3: If you not enough lucky with serial connection either, third chance to write 
  and replace Flash. Flash contains the boot, and root partitions. 
  (BIOS and Operation system together.)

  1. flash write,
  http://groups.google.com/group/dealextreme-nas-/browse_thread/thread/08df34f7df625832?hl=en 

  2. And replace flash
  http://groups.google.com/group/dealextreme-nas-/web/nas-832-flash-chip-relocation-tutorial


*Q: Default user and password for the web interface ?*

  Answer: admin/snake 


*Q: Compile. What are known external dependencies for the source?*
  Answer:
  # upx-nrv
  # libcurl3-openssl-dev
  # liblzo2-2

*Q: Compile. Hey guys it is great, How can I make my own one?*

  Answer:
  # Download source, 
  # sudo su  - became root
  # Extract tar -xvjf snake-os-sdk_x.x.tar.bz2
  # Backup "/snake-os-sdk_x.x/configs"
  # cp /snake-os-sdk/configs/str8132_defconfig_jffs2 /snake-os-sdk/kernels/linux/.config 
  # cd snake-os-sdk/kernels/linux folder
  # export PATH to point to arm compiler. 
    export PATH=/snake-os-sdk_x.x/tools/arm-uclibc-3.4.6/bin:$PATH 
  # make clean && make menuconfig
  # Adjust your kernel settings. 
  # Copy back /snake-os-sdk/kernels/linux/.config file to /snake-os-sdk/configs/str8132_defconfig_jffs2 file. 
  # cd /snake-os-sdk
  # Execute ./mk_snakeos_image.sh *First*  First will definitely fail, run it again.
  # Execute ./mk_snakeos_image.sh *Second time*  Second time should run without error.  

  If second run has error messages, probably you need some package installed to have development environment. 
  For example: apt-get install build-essential,kernel-headers, upx-nrv, liblz2-2,   and more .... all reported during compile as missing.

  mk_snakeos_image.sh script was made by Douglas which compile the kernel and make root file system for JFFS, compress the binaries with UPX (which makes on the fly decompiled binary)

  Compiled firmware is here: 

  /snake-os-sdk_x.x/snake_os/release/ and tftp-capable image on /snake-os-sdk_x.x/output

  You could upgrade your NAS with your newly created custom firmware, under the http://nasaddress/ under system/firmware menu

*Q: Write permissions problem. *

  I have activated samba and FTP. In FTP with anonymous acces and read & write permssion.
 
  Through samba i can read and write but by FTP i can only read. I haven't got write permissions even though I have configured it in Snake OS.
 
  Answer:

  Besides enabling ftp, you will have to adjust the `*`nix permissions if using an ext2/ext3 drive. This can be done by using ssh to access the NAS.
 
  Tip: If you want only to rely on ftp users, use the command 

  `chmod 777/usb/PATH-TO-FOLDER`

*Q: How to copy files from one mounted partition to another mounted partition?*
  Answer: 
  Connect with SSH and run the command below. It will copy the files of source_folder to dest_folder and log the output to log.txt (place outside the involved folders). 

  `nohup cp -av /usb/diska/source_folder  /usb/diskb/dest_folder > /usb/diska/log.txt `

  This way, you can even disconnect the SSH client and the transfer will continue. 

*Q: Where is the source code / SDK of the STAR STR8131. 

  Answer:
  LSDK sources from cnusers forum: http://www.cnusers.org/

  It needs free registration, which takes sometimes a few days.
  
  Or download from here:
  http://www.megafileupload.com/en/file/206928/CNS2100-LSDK-6-8-2-zip.html


*Q: What is the FTP. SMB performance. *

  ||FTP: || Write 3 - 4 MB/s        || read 4 - 6 Mbyte/s.   ||
  ||SMB: || Write 2 - 3MB/s         || read  3 - 4,5 Mbyte/s.|| 

*Q: How can unrar files? Can I leave ssh session during unrar? *

  Yes. There is working ARM UNRAR for SnakeOs: 
  ftp://priede.bf.lu.lv/pub/Arhivatori/RAR/unrar/unrar-arm.tar.bz2


  or here in download section: 


  # tar -xvf unrar-arm.tar.bz2
  # copy unrar to nas sda1 root (/usb/sda1/) via windows share 
  # ssh to snake
  # cd to directory where do you want to unrar files
  # nohup /usb/sda1/unrar e -r `*.r*`   

  it will extract all rar files from all subdirectories! nohup allows to leave ssh session (without needing to be online.)

  6. exit    -  leaving ssh.

*Q: What is chroot? Why I need? *

You can run hundreds of linux applications which are missing in the 
present SnakeOs.  (chroot is shell (a kind of sandbox) where you have debian libraries, and environment within SnakeOS host.)

How can I do?: 

Installation needs ~200MB disk space on attached USB and only 5 easy steps to set up. 

See documents here: http://code.google.com/p/snake-os/wiki/Debian_Chroot 